Update - extra summary detail re Stardust features (#142)
iotaledger/introduction-docs: docs/explanations/what_is_stardust/what_is_stardust.md

# What is Stardust?

The previous IOTA protocol, Chrysalis, was optimized for a single application: sending digital money from A to B.
The upcoming Stardust upgrade introduces computation and utility to the ledger:

> - making IOTA an **infrastructure and settlement layer** for [second-layer smart contract chains](https://wiki.iota.org/smart-contracts/overview) using IOTA Smart Contracts (ISC)

Reviewer: Use lowercase for anchors
```suggestion
- Making IOTA an **infrastructure and settlement layer** for [second-layer smart contract chains](https://wiki.iota.org/smart-contracts/overview) using [IOTA Smart Contracts (ISC)](#isc)
```

- transforming IOTA into a **multi-asset ledger** with custom, user-defined tokens using the new tokenisation framework.

> Let’s examine each of these separately. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Tokenization framework
The tokenization framework enables a lot of new functionality that builders want. Most importantly the ability to mint other tokens and NFTs. Our approach is different to the approach used in most other platforms. The advantages are:
- Tokenization has low energy requirements and no fees.
- Minting is fast and easy and can even be done on Firefly!
- Native tokens and NFTs are first class citizens of the core protocol
  - They benefit from the security of Layer 1.
  - It is simple to fetch all tokens belonging to an account (with Ethereum your ERC balance is stored in the contract state making it difficult to quickly get your balance).
  - Adding native tokens should be extremely easy for exchanges (easier than adding ERC20 tokens for Ethereum).
- Storage deposits are needed for tokenization, which gives significant utility to the IOTA / Shimmer token. The barrier for minting still remains low as you only need a small amount for the initial mint (with additional storage deposits needed for each subsequent wallet holding that token).

> - Storage deposits allow for permanent storage of data on the Tangle. If permanence of data is deemed sufficiently important for a given use case it is possible to store data indefinitely with a storage deposit that scales linearly with the amount of data being stored. If you are no longer using the storage, you get the deposit back.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Storage deposits allow for permanent storage of data on the Tangle. If data permanence is deemed sufficiently necessary for a given use case, it is possible to store data indefinitely with a storage deposit that scales linearly with the amount of data being stored. You get the deposit back if you are no longer using the storage.
```

> - The storage deposits allow on-chain storage of NFT metadata, so that you are not reliant on an IPFS cluster or a web2 solution being maintained. This is relatively unique for NFTs in the DLT space - you would not store a whole movie, but there is a lot of opportunity for novel use cases, especially about storing important metadata. Alternatively this could be useful for some rare high value NFTs (eg “Ferrari” NFTs) for which one may happily pay for the maximum 32kb storage limit. This would also lock up a larger amount of IOTA tokens, which may be seen as a good thing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The storage deposits allow on-chain storage of NFT metadata so that you are not reliant on an IPFS cluster or a web2 solution being maintained. This is relatively unique for NFTs in the DLT space - you would not store a whole movie. Still, there is a lot of opportunity for novel use cases, especially storing important metadata. Alternatively, this could be useful for some rare high-value NFTs (e.g., “Ferrari” NFTs) for which one may happily pay for the maximum 32kb storage limit. This would also lock up a larger amount of IOTA tokens, which may be seen as a good thing.
```

> - Unlock conditions - multiple use cases such as time locks. But an important use case is that no one can spam your address with tokens you don’t want. Eg taint your address with Tornado cash tokens (although in our case it would only taint the utxo it is on rather than the whole address).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Unlock conditions - multiple use cases such as time locks. But an important use case is that no one can spam your address with tokens you don’t want. E.g., taint your address with Tornado cash tokens (although in our case, it would only taint the utxo it is on rather than the whole address).
```

>   - Requirements for transaction claiming also apply to NFTs and ensure no one can spam you with unwanted NSFW content (as per https://decrypt.co/79406/budweiser-dick-pic-nft-ethereum-wallet)  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Requirements for transaction claiming also apply to NFTs and ensure no one can [spam you with unwanted NSFW content](https://decrypt.co/79406/budweiser-dick-pic-nft-ethereum-wallet)  
```

>   - Transaction expiry times can reduce the risk of sending transactions to the wrong address, especially useful for larger amounts. If the funds are not claimed in a certain time frame, the sender can reclaim them. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Transaction expiry times can reduce the risk of sending transactions to the wrong address, especially useful for more significant amounts. If the funds are not claimed in a specific time frame, the sender can reclaim them. 
```

> *Note: wallets typically block transactions to invalid addresses, but there is still a risk of sending to a valid address owned by the wrong person or that nobody currently owns.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::note Invalid Addresses

Wallets typically block transactions to invalid addresses, but there is still a risk of sending to a valid address owned by the wrong person or that nobody currently owns.

```

Reviewer: You need another newline before `:::note` and a `:::` at the end

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::note Invalid Addresses

wallets typically block transactions to invalid addresses, but there is still a risk of sending to a valid address owned by the wrong person or that nobody currently owns.*

:::
```

> Disadvantages:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

### Disadvantages

```

- No programmability as there are no Layer 1 smart contracts currently.

> - Different to the standard ERC standards, especially as tokens like algorithmic stablecoins and vesting schemes need smart contracts, but we can have equivalent versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Different from the standard ERC standards, especially as tokens like algorithmic stablecoins and vesting schemes need smart contracts, but we can have equivalent versions.
```

> ## ISC

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## ISC

```

> ISC can be deployed as multiple Layer 2 (L2) chains. This is different to many other projects which offer smart contracts at Layer 1 (aka L1, on the IOTA ledger). The positives of this approach are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ISC can be deployed as multiple Layer 2 (L2) chains. This differs from many other projects that offer smart contracts at Layer 1 (aka L1, on the IOTA ledger). 

### Advantages
```

- L1 is not congested with smart contracts.

> - L1 is not limited by the speed of the smart contract VM (which can reduce the tps significantly)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- L1 is not limited by the speed of the smart contract VM, which can reduce the transactions per second (TPS) significantly.
```

> - No MEV. No front-running or sandwich attacks, resulting in a “fairer” DeFi environment. There is a set fee and randomization of transactions that are included in blocks, making MEV impossible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- No maximal extractable value(MEV). No front-running or sandwich attacks, resulting in a “fairer” DeFi environment. A set fee and randomization of transactions are included in blocks, making MEV impossible.
```

> - Native randomness beacon (random number generator, or RNG). This is freely available to all dApps, removing the need for expensive trusted third party RNGs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Native randomness beacon (random number generator, or RNG). This is freely available to all dApps, removing the need for expensive, trusted third-party RNGs.
```

> - L1 smart contracts are difficult on a DAG as the order of events is not as obvious as on a normal blockchain (where there is no parallel execution).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- L1 smart contracts are complex on a DAG as the order of events is not as apparent as on a regular blockchain (where there is no parallel execution).
```

> - We have designed a system where L2 chains can interact using the IOTA L1. Assets can be transferred cross-chain via Layer 1 without collateralised bridges. This is a major advantage of ISC compared to other L2 solutions, and is comparable to the IBC system on Cosmos. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We have designed a system where L2 chains can interact using the IOTA L1. Assets can be transferred cross-chain via Layer 1 without collateralized bridges. This is a major advantage of ISC compared to other L2 solutions and is comparable to the IBC system on Cosmos. 
```

> - ISC is horizontally scalable. When one SC chain becomes saturated you can easily spin up a second chain to handle the additional throughput.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ISC is horizontally scalable. When one SC chain becomes saturated, you can easily spin up a second chain to handle the additional throughput.
```

> - Every L2 chain can behave as a sovereign ecosystem and can be fully customised, which is very appealing to many projects. Recent examples include DyDx and Dogechain, both of whom are building sovereign chains on Cosmos. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Every L2 chain can behave as a sovereign ecosystem and can be fully customized, which is very appealing to many projects. Recent examples include DyDx and Dogechain, both building sovereign chains on Cosmos. 
```

> - L2 chains can be both public or private while still being able to interact with L1 and each other. This is bringing the best of both open chains and corporate private chains together.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- L2 chains can be both public or private while still being able to interact with L1 and each other. This is bringing the best of both open chains and private corporate chains together.
```

> The negatives of this approach are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Disadvantages

```

> - Each L2 is relatively independent of IOTA and has flexibility in how they behave. They may leverage the IOTA L1 as little or as much as they want. The L2 chains will use IOTA tokens for:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Each L2 is relatively independent of IOTA and has flexibility in its behavior. They may leverage the IOTA L1 as little or as much as they want. The L2 chains will use IOTA tokens for:
```

>   - A storage deposit to update data on the main chain. In the future also for mana to guarantee enough bandwidth for writing to the ledger.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - A storage deposit to update data on the main chain. In the future, also for mana to guarantee enough bandwidth for writing to the ledger.
```

  - A storage deposit (and in the future mana) to wrap tokens for transfer between chains.

>   - By default the base token (IOTA or SMR depending on the chain) is used for paying for gas on L2 chains. However the chain owner can change this. Any chains spawned by the IOTA Foundation will use IOTA/SMR for gas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - By default, the base token (IOTA or SMR depending on the chain) is used for paying for gas on L2 chains. However, the chain owner can change this. Any chains spawned by the IOTA Foundation will use IOTA/SMR for gas.
```

> - The security of each L2 chain is dependent on its own validator nodes (Wasp nodes), which are independent of the IOTA mainnet nodes. This means IOTA cannot guarantee their safety unless we find a way to leverage L1 nodes for shared security in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The security of each L2 chain is dependent on its validator nodes (Wasp nodes), which are independent of the IOTA mainnet nodes. This means IOTA cannot guarantee their safety unless we find a way to leverage L1 nodes for shared security in the future.
```

>   - There is no current solution for this however, and would require further work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - There is no current solution for this however, and it would require further work.
```

> - As with any interoperability solution, If the majority of economic activity moves to L2, then the value of L1 may be compromised. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- As with any interoperability solution, if most economic activity moves to L2, then the value of L1 may be compromised. 
```

# What is Stardust?

The previous IOTA protocol, Chrysalis, was optimized for a single application: sending digital money from A to B.
The upcoming Stardust upgrade introduces computation and utility to the ledger:
- Making IOTA an **infrastructure and settlement layer** for [second-layer smart contract chains](https://wiki.iota.org/smart-contracts/overview) using [IOTA Smart Contracts (ISC)](#isc).
- Transforming IOTA into a **multi-asset ledger** with custom, user-defined tokens using the new [tokenization framework](#tokenization-framework).

> ## Tokenization Framework
> The [tokenization framework](tokenization.md) enables many new functionalities that builders want, most importantly, the ability to mint other tokens and NFTs. Our approach is different from the approach used in most other platforms. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tokenization Framework

The [tokenization framework](tokenization.md) enables many new functionalities that builders want, most importantly, the ability to mint other tokens and NFTs. Our approach is different from the approach used in most other platforms, which require full smart contracts to do so. It has its advantages and disadvantages."
```

Reviewer 3: Just an alternative suggestion:

```suggestion
## Tokenization Framework

The [tokenization framework](tokenization.md) enables many new functionalities that builders want, most notably, the ability to mint other tokens and NFTs directly on Layer 1 and enable smart contracts anchored in Layer 1. Our approach is different from the approach used in most other platforms. 
```

The tokenization framework enables many new functionalities that builders want, most importantly, the ability to mint other tokens and NFTs. Our approach is different from the approach used in most other platforms. 

### Advantages
- Tokenization has low energy requirements and no fees.

> - Minting is fast and easy and can even be done on Firefly!

Reviewer 4: Link to firefly.iota.org , newcomers don't know what FF is.

- Native tokens and NFTs are first-class citizens of the core protocol:
  - They benefit from the security of Layer 1.
  - It is simple to fetch all tokens belonging to an account. With Ethereum, your ERC balance is stored in the contract state, making it difficult to get it quickly.
  - Adding native tokens should be extremely easy for exchanges (easier than adding ERC20 tokens for Ethereum).
- Storage deposits are needed for tokenization, which gives significant utility to the IOTA / Shimmer token. The barrier for minting remains low as you only need a small amount for the initial mint (with additional storage deposits needed for each subsequent wallet holding that token).
- Storage deposits allow for permanent storage of data on the Tangle. If data permanence is deemed sufficiently necessary for a given use case, it is possible to store data indefinitely with a storage deposit that scales linearly with the amount of data being stored. You get the deposit back if you are no longer using the storage.

> - The storage deposits allow on-chain storage of NFT metadata so that you are not reliant on an IPFS cluster or a web2 solution being maintained. This is relatively unique for NFTs in the DLT space - you would not store a whole movie. Still, there is a lot of opportunity for novel use cases, especially storing important metadata. Alternatively, this could be useful for some rare high-value NFTs (e.g., “Ferrari” NFTs) for which one may happily pay for the maximum 32kb storage limit. This would also lock up a larger amount of IOTA tokens, which may be seen as a good thing.

Reviewer 4: Still wrong, 8 kb immutable + 8 kb mutable currently per NFT currently. There might be tweaks on how to associate more data to an NFT: create basic outputs timelocked for eternity that the NFT owns, so you can put 8kb immutable data per outputs in those. There is no limit on how many outputs an nft can own.

- Unlock conditions - multiple use cases such as time locks. But an important use case is that no one can spam your address with tokens you don’t want. E.g., taint your address with Tornado cash tokens (although in our case, it would only taint the utxo it is on rather than the whole address).

>   - Requirements for transaction claiming also apply to NFTs and ensure no one can [spam you with unwanted NSFW content](https://decrypt.co/79406/budweiser-dick-pic-nft-ethereum-wallet)  

Reviewer 4: Not true. They can spam you if they gift you the storage deposit. But what is different is that you can easily burn these and extract the deposit!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Requirements for transaction claiming also apply to NFTs and although people can [spam you with unwanted NSFW content](https://decrypt.co/79406/budweiser-dick-pic-nft-ethereum-wallet)  you can easily burn those NFTs and extract the storage deposit
```

  - Transaction expiry times can reduce the risk of sending transactions to the wrong address, especially useful for more significant amounts. If the funds are not claimed in a specific time frame, the sender can reclaim them. 
:::note Invalid Addresses

Wallets typically block transactions to invalid addresses, but there is still a risk of sending to a valid address owned by the wrong person or that nobody currently owns.

> 

Reviewer 4: fix it please

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note Invalid Addresses

Wallets typically block transactions to invalid addresses, but there is still a risk of sending to a valid address owned by the wrong person or that nobody currently owns.

:::
```

:::
### Disadvantages

- No programmability as there are no Layer 1 smart contracts currently.
- Different from the standard ERC standards, especially as tokens like algorithmic stablecoins and vesting schemes need smart contracts, but we can have equivalent versions.

## ISC

> ISC can be deployed as multiple Layer 2 (L2) chains. This differs from other projects that offer smart contracts on Layer 1 (L1, on the IOTA ledger). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ISC can be deployed as multiple Layer 2 (L2) chains, unlike many other projects that offer smart contracts on Layer 1 (L1).
```

# What is Stardust?

The previous IOTA protocol, Chrysalis, was optimized for a single application: sending digital money from A to B.
The upcoming Stardust upgrade introduces computation and utility to the ledger:
- Making IOTA an **infrastructure and settlement layer** for [second-layer smart contract chains](https://wiki.iota.org/smart-contracts/overview) using [IOTA Smart Contracts (ISC)](#isc).
- Transforming IOTA into a **multi-asset ledger** with custom, user-defined tokens using the new [tokenization framework](#tokenization-framework).

## Tokenization Framework

> The tokenization framework enables many new functionalities that builders want, most importantly, the ability to mint other tokens and NFTs. Our approach is different from the approach used in most other platforms. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [tokenization framework](tokenization.md) enables many new functionalities that builders want, most importantly, the ability to mint other tokens and NFTs. Our approach is different from the approach used in most other platforms. 
```

> ## Tokenization Framework
> The tokenization framework enables many new functionalities that builders want, most importantly, the ability to mint other tokens and NFTs. Our approach is different from the approach used in most other platforms. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Tokenization Framework

The tokenization framework enables many new functionalities that builders want, most importantly, the ability to mint other tokens and NFTs. Our approach is different from the approach used in most other platforms.
```

I would suggest to describe our approach or explain the difference briefly before jumping to advantages and disadvantages. For instance:

"The tokenization framework extends the protocol functionality just enough to mind native tokens and NFTs directly on Level 1, unlike other protocols that require a full smart contract to do so. It has its advantages and disadvantages."

This way the reader would know what exactly do we compare and could see where these advantages come from.

Reviewer: Makes sense. But the full smart contracts sentence may be too much, as with the tokenization framework we planned to enable Smart contracts in the first place. We now just also make more use of our own L1 by adding native assets

> ### Advantages
> - Tokenization has low energy requirements and no fees.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Advantages

- Tokenization has low energy requirements and no fees.
```

- Minting is fast and easy and can even be done on [Firefly](https://firefly.iota.org)!

> - Native tokens and NFTs are first-class citizens of the core protocol:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Native tokens](../ledger/foundry.md) and [NFTs](../ledger/nft.md) are first-class citizens of the core protocol:
```

  - They benefit from the security of Layer 1.
  - It is simple to fetch all tokens belonging to an account. With Ethereum, your ERC balance is stored in the contract state, making it difficult to get it quickly.
  - Adding native tokens should be extremely easy for exchanges (easier than adding ERC20 tokens for Ethereum).

> - Storage deposits are needed for tokenization, which gives significant utility to the IOTA / Shimmer token. The barrier for minting remains low as you only need a small amount for the initial mint (with additional storage deposits needed for each subsequent wallet holding that token).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Storage deposits](storage_deposit.md) are needed for tokenization, which gives significant utility to the IOTA and Shimmer tokens. The barrier for minting remains low as you only need a small amount for the initial mint (with additional storage deposits needed for each subsequent wallet holding that token).
```

- Storage deposits allow for permanent storage of data on the Tangle. If data permanence is deemed sufficiently necessary for a given use case, it is possible to store data indefinitely with a storage deposit that scales linearly with the amount of data being stored. You get the deposit back if you are no longer using the storage.

> - The storage deposits allow on-chain storage of NFT metadata so that you are not reliant on an IPFS cluster or a web2 solution being maintained. This is relatively unique for NFTs in the DLT space - you would not store a whole movie. Still, there is a lot of opportunity for novel use cases, especially storing important metadata. Alternatively, this could be useful for some rare high-value NFTs (e.g., “Ferrari” NFTs) for which one may happily pay for the maximum 16kb (8kB mutable and 8kB immutable data) storage limit. This would also lock up a larger amount of IOTA tokens, which may be seen as a good thing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The storage deposits allow on-chain storage of NFT metadata so that you are not reliant on an IPFS cluster or a web2 solution being maintained. This is relatively unique for NFTs in the DLT space - you would not store a whole movie. Still, there is a lot of opportunity for novel use cases, especially storing important metadata. Alternatively, this could be useful for some rare high-value NFTs (e.g., “Ferrari” NFTs) for which one may happily pay for the maximum 16kB (8kB mutable and 8kB immutable data) storage limit. This would also lock up a larger amount of IOTA tokens, which may be seen as a good thing.
```

- Unlock conditions - multiple use cases such as time locks. But an important use case is that no one can spam your address with tokens you don’t want. E.g., taint your address with Tornado cash tokens (although in our case, it would only taint the utxo it is on rather than the whole address).

>   - Requirements for transaction claiming also apply to NFTs and although people can [spam you with unwanted NSFW content](https://decrypt.co/79406/budweiser-dick-pic-nft-ethereum-wallet)  you can easily burn those NFTs and extract the storage deposit

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Requirements for transaction claiming also apply to NFTs. Although people can [spam you with unwanted NSFW content](https://decrypt.co/79406/budweiser-dick-pic-nft-ethereum-wallet), you can easily burn those NFTs and extract the storage deposit.
```

  - Transaction expiry times can reduce the risk of sending transactions to the wrong address, especially useful for more significant amounts. If the funds are not claimed in a specific time frame, the sender can reclaim them. 

:::note Invalid Addresses

Wallets typically block transactions to invalid addresses, but there is still a risk of sending to a valid address owned by the wrong person or that nobody currently owns.

:::

> 
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

```

### Disadvantages

- No programmability as there are no Layer 1 smart contracts currently.
- Different from the standard ERC standards, especially as tokens like algorithmic stablecoins and vesting schemes need smart contracts, but we can have equivalent versions.

## ISC

> ISC can be deployed as multiple Layer 2 (L2) chains. This differs from many other projects that offer smart contracts at Layer 1 (aka L1, on the IOTA ledger). 

Reviewer 5: As is, that could be read as if there were many other projects besides ISC that offer smart contracts on the IOTA ledger.

```suggestion
ISC can be deployed as multiple Layer 2 (L2) chains, unlike many other projects that offer smart contracts at Layer 1 (L1).
```

### Advantages

> - L1 is not congested with smart contracts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [L1 is not congested with smart contracts](https://wiki.iota.org/shimmer/smart-contracts/guide/core_concepts/smart-contracts/#scalable-smart-contracts).
```

> ### Advantages
> - L1 is not congested with smart contracts.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Advantages

- L1 is not congested with smart contracts.
```

> - L1 is not limited by the speed of the smart contract VM, which can reduce the transactions per second (TPS) significantly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Since L1 is not limited by the speed of the smart contract VM, transactions per second (TPS) increase significantly.
```

### Disadvantages

- Each L2 is relatively independent of IOTA and has flexibility in its behavior. They may leverage the IOTA L1 as little or as much as they want. The L2 chains will use IOTA tokens for:
  - A storage deposit to update data on the main chain. In the future, also for mana to guarantee enough bandwidth for writing to the ledger.
  - A storage deposit (and in the future mana) to wrap tokens for transfer between chains.
  - By default, the base token (IOTA or SMR depending on the chain) is used for paying for gas on L2 chains. However, the chain owner can change this. Any chains spawned by the IOTA Foundation will use IOTA/SMR for gas.
- The security of each L2 chain is dependent on its validator nodes (Wasp nodes), which are independent of the IOTA mainnet nodes. This means IOTA cannot guarantee their safety unless we find a way to leverage L1 nodes for shared security in the future.
  - There is no current solution for this however, and it would require further work.
- As with any interoperability solution, if most economic activity moves to L2, then the value of L1 may be compromised. 

> In the following sections, we will go through the new concepts in detail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following sections will explain the new concepts and features in detail.
```

 - make IOTA an **infrastructure and settlement layer** for [second-layer smart contract chains](https://wiki.iota.org/smart-contracts/overview),
 - transform IOTA into a **multi-asset ledger** with custom, user defined tokens.

The previous IOTA protocol, Chrysalis, was optimized for a single application: sending digital money from A to B.
The upcoming Stardust upgrade introduces computation and utility to the ledger:
- making IOTA an **infrastructure and settlement layer** for [second-layer smart contract chains](https://wiki.iota.org/smart-contracts/overview) using IOTA Smart Contracts (ISC)

> - transforming IOTA into a **multi-asset ledger** with custom, user-defined tokens using the new tokenisation framework.

Reviewer 4: Repetition of L15-17. Consider removing L15-17 then.

Let’s examine each of these separately. 

## Tokenization framework
The tokenization framework enables a lot of new functionality that builders want. Most importantly the ability to mint other tokens and NFTs. Our approach is different to the approach used in most other platforms. The advantages are:
- Tokenization has low energy requirements and no fees.
- Minting is fast and easy and can even be done on Firefly!
- Native tokens and NFTs are first class citizens of the core protocol
-- They benefit from the security of Layer 1.
-- It is simple to fetch all tokens belonging to an account (with Ethereum your ERC balance is stored in the contract state making it difficult to quickly get your balance).

> -- Adding native tokens should be extremely easy for exchanges (easier than adding ERC20 tokens for Ethereum).

Reviewer 4: Indentation is wrong. Use only one `-` but indent it with 2 spaces.

- Storage deposits are needed for tokenization, which gives significant utility to the IOTA / Shimmer token. The barrier for minting still remains low as you only need a small amount for the initial mint (with additional storage deposits needed for each subsequent wallet holding that token).
- Storage deposits allow for permanent storage of data on the Tangle. If permanence of data is deemed sufficiently important for a given use case it is possible to store data indefinitely with a storage deposit that scales linearly with the amount of data being stored. If you are no longer using the storage, you get the deposit back.

> - The storage deposits allow on-chain storage of NFT metadata, so that you are not reliant on an IPFS cluster or a web2 solution being maintained. This is relatively unique for NFTs in the DLT space - you would not store a whole movie, but there is a lot of opportunity for novel use cases, especially about storing important metadata. Alternatively this could be useful for some rare high value NFTs (eg “Ferrari” NFTs) for which one may happily pay for the maximum 32kb storage limit. This would also lock up a larger amount of IOTA tokens, which may be seen as a good thing.

Reviewer 4: 32 kb is current max block size. An NFT can have 8 kb immutable + 8 kb mutable metadata. Ofc you can store bigger files, but then you have to spread it accross UTXOs.

- Unlock conditions - multiple use cases such as time locks. But an important use case is that no one can spam your address with tokens you don’t want. Eg taint your address with Tornado cash tokens (although in our case it would only taint the utxo it is on rather than the whole address).

> -- Requirements for transaction claiming also apply to NFTs and ensure no one can spam you with unwanted NSFW content (as per https://decrypt.co/79406/budweiser-dick-pic-nft-ethereum-wallet)  

Reviewer 4: They can spam you with NSFW NFTs, but it means they are giving you the storage deposit plus you can burn them.

Author: Moved to the storage deposit section

> -- Transaction expiry times can reduce the risk of sending transactions to the wrong address, especially useful for larger amounts. If the funds are not claimed in a certain time frame, the sender can reclaim them. 

Reviewer 4: Wrong indent.

*Note: wallets typically block transactions to invalid addresses, but there is still a risk of sending to a valid address owned by the wrong person or that nobody currently owns.*

Disadvantages:
- No programmability as there are no Layer 1 smart contracts currently.

> - Different to the standard ERC standards, especially as tokens like algorithmic stablecoins and vesting schemes need smart contracts. but we can have equivalent versions.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Different to the standard ERC standards, especially as tokens like algorithmic stablecoins and vesting schemes need smart contracts, but we can have equivalent versions.
```

- ISC is horizontally scalable. When one SC chain becomes saturated you can easily spin up a second chain to handle the additional throughput.
- Every L2 chain can behave as a sovereign ecosystem and can be fully customised, which is very appealing to many projects. Recent examples include DyDx and Dogechain, both of whom are building sovereign chains on Cosmos. 
- L2 chains can be both public or private while still being able to interact with L1 and each other. This is bringing the best of both open chains and corporate private chains together.

The negatives of this approach are:
- Each L2 is relatively independent of IOTA and has flexibility in how they behave. They may leverage the IOTA L1 as little or as much as they want. The L2 chains will use IOTA tokens for:
-- A storage deposit to update data on the main chain. In the future also for mana to guarantee enough bandwidth for writing to the ledger.
-- A storage deposit (and in the future mana) to wrap tokens for transfer between chains.

> -- By default the base token (IOTA or SMR depending on the chain) is used for paying for gas on L2 chains. However the chain owner can change this. Any chains spawned by the IOTA Foundation will use IOTA/SMR for gas.

Reviewer 4: wrong ident
